<h3>Brief Description of the Project</h3> <i class="fa-solid fa-1"></i>

<p align=justify>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Animal Domestication or animal husbandry is one among the top industries for profit in the Philippines. Despite being an exclusive industry that does not receive assistance from the government, the Philippines has a Php 200B hog industry ranking only second to rice industry in terms of attribution to Philippine industry. The increase of farming productivity is essential due to growing needs of the world for food. Livestock agriculture or livestock management specifically, must evolve in order to provide more products with greater efficiency while simultaneously addressing issues related to animal care, environmental sustainability, and public health.
<p align=justify>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Since the emergence of technologies in agriculture, livestock farms are looking for opportunities to enhance productivity of their farm. One of the main justification in adjusting production policy is the rapidly shifting environment, which include challenging market conditions and high exposure to financial risk. Due to this, the livestock farming sector must integrate highly complicated operations while making sure to uphold sustainability criteria. 
<p align=justify>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Therefore, the need to develop management system to assist farmers in livestock industry in evaluating strategies before implementing them. Current pig farming practices are still mostly manual and does not use cutting-edge Information and Communication Technology or scientific management techniques. To increase livestock productivity, the development of a backyard piggery management system presents a significant step forward.
<p align=justify>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Manual record keeping, like the current practice that livestock industries employ as of today is prone to human error. Apart from that it imposes inefficiency as one would have to manually write their data. It also implies a lot of paper waste as one progresses to continue their piggery and the accumulation of such paper waste which is contradictory to some environmental goals.
<p align=justify>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; To solve this problem, the proponents proposes an idea of a mobile application entitled "PORCUS: Backyard Piggery Management" which revolves managing pigs and schedules in a typical pig farming business, to help farmers with their daily farm transactions. With the use of this application, it will help farmers eliminate manual record tracking or keeping, and thus, would help limit waste by eliminating use of pen and paper. Also, by using this mobile application, management of one's piggery can be done virtually everywhere you can bring your phone to.
